mark Crispin Miller is the author of
fooled again how the right stole the
2004 election and why this they'll steal
the next 12 in parentheses unless we
stop them first off how was the election
stolen well it was stolen through a very
broad range of tactics and devices there
were countless frauds at the state level
at the county level as well as larger
frauds such as for example a clearly
systematic interference with the votes
of Americans abroad last chapter of
fooled again deals with that it was
there is no one smoking gun there was no
single method although the electronic
touchscreen voting machines were
variously used throughout the nation to
cut the Kerry vote and pad the bush vote
but what's one of the most striking
things about what happened last year is
the sheer variety the menu of tricks
many of them taking us back to the good
old days of Mayor Daley in Chicago where
I come from Democrats and Republicans
have been stealing elections for years
but this theft last year I argue was was
different in scale and technological
sophistication and in the profoundly
anti-democratic sentiment behind it some
of the things that you write about
include voter suppression and Election
Day irregularities explain what you mean
by those terms well voter suppression
refers to a whole range of things but it
would include systematic efforts to make
voter registration difficult or
impossible this happened not only in
Ohio as we all know the stuff went on in
Ohio but it happened in Florida it
happened in Pennsylvania really happened
nationwide and it's it's not as a sort
of dramatic a method is putting on white
hoods and going out and frightening
people into staying home on Election Day
but it's actually more effective for
that very reason it leaves no traces but
it does disproportionately affect people
only on one side of the political divide
then you asked about
the other thing Election Day
irregularity irregularities were
staggering in their diversity for
example throughout the nation there was
a sort of systematic undersupply of
voting machines to democratic regions
not just in Ohio again but all over the
place even when they expected a very
high turnout they would be woefully
under supplied with machines of the
machines they did get many of them would
break down this didn't happen in
Republican districts so that in the most
crowded places where they were the most
new voters often you would have very
very long lines people having to wait
for hours and then predictably enough
people having to leave without voting
because they had to work to do or kids
to take care of so that's just one
example the book attempts to give a real
overview of all the stuff that went down
last year most of it reported by local
media and tuned out of shrugged off by
national media and even at this point
also by the Democrats I want to make
clear to your viewers that I'm not a
Democrat I'm a proud independent my
politics go back to Tom Paine and Thomas
Jefferson and frankly considering how
the Democratic Party has refused to deal
with this crucial issue the integrity of
our electoral system I'm I'm a more
fervent non Democrat I want to see at
least one of the parties show that they
believe in the system that the framers
designed for us and that's fundamentally
dependent on the right to vote are there
any lessons that have been learned
either by the the media the Democrats or
the Republicans that will be carried
forth into the two thousand six and two
thousand eight so that on either side of
the political fence there won't be the
accusation that this election was stolen
from us by the other side well that's an
interesting question I think that the
the right has learned how to keep doing
more of what they've been doing there
are efforts now underway
a to get the Diebold electronic touch
screen voting machines into so-called
blue strongholds like california new
york maryland and because the press and
the Democrats refuse to talk about the
really serious flaws in those machines a
lot of people are not sufficiently aware
of the problem to organize against the
use of those machines so they're also of
course as a campaign here in Washington
to weaken the Voting Rights Act of 1965
which is up for renewal if that law
should be weakened that will open the
door to states like Georgia which now
demand that all the voters purchase a
state issued ID before they vote this
amounts to a poll tax they're similar
legislation is pending in Arizona in
Indiana if the Voting Rights Act is
repealed these states will be free to
disenfranchise as many of their citizens
as they want so I'm afraid the lessons
that have been learned have been the
wrong lessons we we see people the
people who stand to lose the most shying
away from the issue because they're
afraid it sounds crazy we see the media
basically ridiculing people who point
out well documented anomalies well
documented in proprieties that's not the
way the system is supposed to work I
think the right of the people to vote
sacrosanct and I think that Democrats
and Republicans of principal who believe
in the system should really pay
attention to what happened last year
because if the scandal does not finally
resonate we won't have the movement of
media reverse re of election reform that
we very very badly need we're talking
about election politics particularly
presidential election politics with
author and professor mark Crispin Miller
author of fooled again the numbers there
on the screens if you want to get
involved in the conversation 20 27 37 00
02 if you support the Democrats 37 37 00
01 if you support president bush
2026 280 205 if you're an independent
like our author mr. Miller our first
call comes from Omaha Nebraska on the
Democrats line go ahead hello I'm a
first-time caller i'd like to ask the
guest and if he has if this is proven
through his book and he's got the data
why is there not more of an outcry from
the democrats and from any civil
organization i mean what how could this
happen well that is an excellent
question that's probably d question how
could it happen the evidence is is
abundant and it's precise and people
don't have to rely on my book to see
that something's very badly wrong the
GAO Government Accountability Office
which is a completely bipartisan
completely respectable establishment
Aryan research agency came out with a
report about a month ago demonstrating
quite clearly that the electronic
touchscreen machines have serious flaws
in them and they're not really safe to
use in a democratic system that's the
GAO has been abundant other evidence
John Conyers report on what happened in
Ohio which is available under the title
what went wrong in Ohio as a paperback
there's all this evidence why isn't
there more of an outcry about it well I
discussed this with John Kerry three
weeks ago and he told me that he
believes the race was stolen but he
deplore the fact that his fellow
Democrats on the hill won't discuss it
with him tried to talk to Christopher
Dodd for example about the machines Dodd
got annoyed he got impatient we looked
into this there's nothing there we call
this denial the story got out that I had
had this conversation with him about a
week later and he categorically denied
ever having the exchange with me I've
met with him to give him my book and to
urge him to look into this issue well I
promise you it's true we did have the
conversation and Teresa Heinz Kerry has
gone publicly has gone on record as
saying she believes the race was stolen
or at least she suspects that it was
this is the crucial question why are the
Democrats afraid to talk about it
Democrats other than John Conyers and a
few brave souls and why is the media so
quick to ridicule the very idea when you
know stealing elections is in a sense an
American pastime and we've seen that
this administration will do just about
anything it wants so I would urge all
your viewers to you know however they
get their information about this whether
they read the GAO report or whether they
read fooled again whatever they do they
must pressure their elected
representatives and the media in their
area to look into this stop sweeping it
under the rug it's too important to a
lot of this thing to continue Houston
Texas go ahead uh yeah let me first
thank you for c-span it's a really great
service you do I have to wonder what
fantasy world your guest is living in if
he has even read the American Center for
voting rights legislative fund report of
2005 which reported that while Democrats
routinely accused Republicans of voter
intimidation and suppression that
neither party had a clean record and the
evidence shows that Democrats waged an
aggressive suppression campaign against
Republican voters in 2004 and some
examples they give or paid Democrat
operatives charged with slashing tires
and 25 get out the vote bands in
Milwaukee misleading telephone calls
made by Democrat operatives operating
and telephone voters in Ohio with wrong
dates to the election intimidating and
deceiving mailings and telephone calls
paid for by the DNC threatening
Republican volunteers in Florida with
legal action Union coordinated
intimidation violent campaign targeted
at Republican campaign offices and
volunteers resulting in a broken arm for
a GOP volunteer in Florida it goes on
and on documenting evidence of
widespread Democrat fraud and it's just
it's just ludicrous sir well I know that
report very
well the American Center for voting
rights is a Republican front group that
represents itself is bipartisan this is
a very old trick if people want the
details on the American Center for
voting rights i posted a lot of
information about it on my website mark
Crispin Miller calm the fact is it's run
by what we had party operatives party
lawyers and they have a guy I think his
name is Brian lund who was ostensibly a
Democrat but he's been a very pro-bush
Democrat for a while almost all of the
instances your caller mentioned in the
report are actually far more typical of
the Republicans they made robo calls
throughout the nation giving people the
wrong date for election day the
Democrats would had nothing to gain from
doing that the one instance he mentions
at the tire slashing it was not paid
operatives who slashed those tires in
Milwaukee it was actually the son of a
democratic candidate deplorable you know
anything like that i think is deplorable
but the important point is this the
republicans have to resort to this kind
of propaganda in order to cloud the
issue because while there were cases of
individuals kind of might say a kind of
retail level vote fraud people basically
trying to make more money they'd be
hired to register new democrats so they
would make up names they register Mickey
Mouse and Princess Grace of Monaco you
know because they wanted the four bucks
for that extra vote that's corruption
that happens it's deplorable whenever
the instances were discovered the people
were fired it wasn't done by the party
itself the wholesale kind of fraud the
systemic fraud the fraud involving
secretaries of state who also co-chair
presidential campaigns in their state
fiddling with the laws with the rules
making the rules deliberately confusing
the fact is that the Republican Party
engaged in systemic collective acts of
fraud compared to which the democratic
fraud was insignificant to compare the
two is like you know comparing a
pickpocket ring to the Cosa Nostra our
next call comes from Newtown Connecticut
on our others line for Mark Crispin
Miller
good morning uh thank you for c-span and
good morning mr. Miller and thank you
for bringing up this important subject I
was very interested to hear what you
said about Senator Dodd since he is my
senator and I was struck by seeing the
subject this morning because in my own
town all of the voting machines are
being replaced this year under a very
tight deadline our registrar of voters
have had to go and choose an electronic
voting machine I guess the the the the
logic of this is dictated by the help
America Vote Act which says that if if
there's any machine that can't be used
by a handicapped person then all the
machines have to be changed and I've
just been watching this process unfold
here in our own town with great concern
because I think people have to keep in
mind that with electronic voting for
instance in in Florida and apparently in
Ohio if if if a vote gets stolen
anywhere in this country enough to tip a
race then it's it's your vote that's
being stolen anywhere my vote I feel was
stolen even though in our state I feel
the election was run fairly in two
thousand but now these electronic voting
machines apparently will be the only
thing available to us after so many
years of using the previous system and I
guess I just want to ask if you'd ever
anything about the company that turns
out we'll probably be using in this town
which is danna hawk danaher that's da na
h er perhaps some of these units are
trustworthy but you know thank God we're
not getting it at the Diebold unit arm
is is there anything that that we can do
to UM petition this this mass movement
towards electronic voting machines
because that seems to me the greatest
threat and do you think the Danaher
machine is subject to the same type of
tampering I will take the answer offline
thank you very much thank you for that
call I'm not expert on Danaher but I can
make a general statement on the the
state of electronic voting machines in
general there bug-ridden they're made by
private vendors that will not reveal
their programming codes therefore to
allow any of these companies to count
the vote assuring us
we should trust them that they will
definitely give us the correct numbers
is exactly like allowing the management
of the company to take the votes on
election day into their homes pull the
blinds lock the doors come out the next
morning and say okay here's your results
trust us it is exactly tantamount to a
secret vote count now it is completely
feasible to me that there could be a
system design that's somehow tamper
proof I strongly doubt it I think that
any computer-based system is
questionable the help America Vote Act
does not directly mandate the use of
touchscreen machines but as the caller
correctly said it mandates the use of
whatever meat machines will make it
easiest for the disabled to vote and it
provides money lots and lots of money to
places that will buy such machinery the
biggest players in this game diebold
esns and Sequoia are all private vendors
their management and and owners are all
closely connected to the Republican
Party if it were the case that they were
all closely connected to the Democratic
Party I would still be sitting here
talking to you and complaining about it
because that has no place in our system
so the answer the answer to a specific
question is go to voters unite org
voters unite org has kind of daily
listing of all articles and developments
and groups and so on everything that
pertains to election theft and see
what's going on in Connecticut there
have been local efforts in certain
states to fight the use of these
machines these efforts are sometimes
successful so please do look into that
and I wish you I wish you well is it
possible that the Democrats have not
thrown up any kind of hue and cry with
regard to alleged irregularities in the
2004 election because they don't want to
have to admit that the Republicans are
better at dirty tricks than they are I
never heard that explanation before
that's I suppose that's possible but I
think it's something it's something more
irrational than that I think they're
basically
righton of seeming fringy of seeming to
be way way out there and i also think
frankly that there's an element of
denial i think the implications of what
went down last year are extremely
frightening I mean what this suggests to
us is that we're not really living in a
functioning democracy what it suggests
was is we got one party basically in
control of the government and it will
play by its own rules and doesn't really
regard itself as accountable to the
electorate because it has a way to get
around the electorate those are
difficult things to take in especially
for people inside the system here in
Washington people like carrie like dodd
who are materially and emotionally
invested in the status quo they don't
want to go where this will have to take
them so i think it's it it's very human
that people have preferred to shrug it
off but I think it's also irresponsible
Onalaska Wisconsin go ahead hello I've
been waiting a while in good morning
until I hope you let me finish what I
have to say well first of all your
guests I don't know if he just really
likes pie movies and James Bond those
types of conspiracies are what's what is
problem is but it seems to me that this
talk about somehow another I'm black and
let's talk about that we black people
are are afraid and we can be easily
intimidated we're not living in America
1930 we're not running around here
intimidated by white people that's just
a lie and second of all it seems to me
that if the Democrats win constantly
then there is no fraud only if the
Republicans win as if the only way that
it can be fair as if the democrats are
winning and so you know your whole
argument is just this is pathetic you're
pathetic it's just just pathetic
situation you just need to get away from
your conspiracy theory movies and try to
you know look into reality a little more
mr. Miller I looked into reality long
and hard and I found abundant evidence
of systematic efforts to intimidate
black voters and Hispanic voters
Native American voters all over the
country the sources are there I've page
upon page of footnotes I'm an extremely
meticulous scholar and I think this was
a valuable call because it demonstrates
the kind of argument I tend to come up
against this woman hasn't read the book
this woman has some vague ideas about
how swell everything is today what she
should get out more frankly he should
certainly read the book she can take it
out of the library but what's most
striking here is the kind of personal
attack on me I'm pathetic or I may be
pathetic okay but the fact is the book
is solidly argued and well evidenced so
the question I would have for her it's
rhetorical is you know what why does
this why does this so anger you why do
you feel it necessary to insulte me give
me a specific example that you would
find in the book that would would
support your point that blacks minority
Latinos and other minorities were
targeted to try and steer them away or
to try and have their votes not counted
in the Alaska well I mean all over the
country in Pennsylvania Michigan and
Wisconsin all throughout the south in
black areas black cities for example
there was a startling array of
intimidation tactics used and
disinformation deployed to keep people
from getting to the polls on the right
day in the right place people were
systematically threatened with arrest if
they showed up to vote with so much as
an unpaid parking ticket or if they had
a relative who was behind in child
support payments this went on all over
the place and if people want to go to
the original source of much of the
evidence they need only consult the
election incident reporting system
that's e IRS that's on line so if you
want to know what happens say in New
Orleans before on the election day you
can go type in e IRS to a Google search
on e IRS and New Orleans and you'll get
a full catalogue of the calls that were
made that day by people who had been
personally prevented from voting
personally intimidated
personally misinformed this went on you
know it on such a scale and in so many
places that were primarily
african-american Hispanic American a
Native American also in student
neighborhoods college towns you would
really have to be more than naive to
decide that it was accidental our next
call comes from Washington DC go ahead
good morning good morning what one
things I like to actually agree with you
as we being an african-american from New
Orleans and having to have my driver's
license test by a police officer before
devoted that a lot of things did go
along that was wrong when you were
waiting in line sir before you ask your
question when you were waiting in line
did you notice whether or not the police
officers were checking the driver's
licenses of white voters no they weren't
they had poll volunteers that were
actually checking there's that were
regular citizens that were there or
elderly but when the black person will
walk into the police person the police
officer will come up and say can I
figure ID okay go ahead with this went
on with it black colleges in texas and
alabama and south carolina it went on
all over the place and it's it's simply
a denial of reality to say otherwise
this man's experience is typical
baltimore maryland you're on the
washington journal Wow more numb just to
make a comment I think mr. Miller you're
you're you're a fraud a phony and I
don't mean to call you names but I just
want to you know it's my opinion I'm
from Baltimore years ago I was involved
in politics I'm a registered Democrat
been a Democrat all my life because you
basically have no power in the Baltimore
area unless you are a Democrat I'm from
the Italian community ice to vote 1015
times as a Democrat so about voter fraud
I'm in Chicago times in Baltimore times
in all major cities where the Democrats
win all the time talk about fraud I
switch parties because of that now I
come from a family background where it
was you know it
talk about I just done to me I just
can't get over how how twisted your
thinking is and your book is I thought I
read your book I wouldn't read your book
but I'm telling you this fraud is in the
Democratic Party and it's amazing how
the Democrats accused Republicans of
that which they do constant well how be
believes what I say in reply sure
there's been fraud for a long time in
various Democratic cities I think I've
said at the beginning of the show that
there's been election fraud on both
sides for a very long time he's right
about Baltimore he's right about Chicago
I'm from Chicago so I know this that's
neither here nor there the fact that it
does go on and has gone on certainly
doesn't mean it only goes on only has
gone on among the Democrats the fact
that it has gone on among the Democrats
doesn't mean that in the last election
there was not systemic collective fraud
committed by the Republicans as i said
before some of Mayor Daley's tactics
from Chicago that I recognized from when
I was a teenager that were used in this
last election often involving the sort
of strategic use of certain party
members to pose as members of the other
party this is how Mayor Daley got around
the rule that there had to be a
bipartisan panel of election judges in
every in every ward so they were all
actually Democrats some of them call
themselves Republicans I've received
other calls like this gentleman's call
similarly abusive and similarly claiming
that I'm a Democrat and I saw this
happen so much I had to change parties I
mean I may be a fraud and a phony I
would submit that this guy could be a
fraud in the phony too just like the
American Center for voting rights as a
fraud we've got this item from Reuters
which actually came out on tuesday from
Kansas City the US Justice Department
has sued Missouri a swing state won
easily by president george w bush for
voting violations in the 2004 election
including registering more people to
vote in some counties than their entire
vote
aged population the complaint filed on
Tuesday in the US District Court for the
Western District of Missouri said 29
Missouri counties and election
jurisdictions had more people registered
to vote than there actually were people
of voting age living in those areas if
this works its way through the the
criminal justice system uh and I don't
know if it would be something that would
end up in the Supreme Court is it
possible that they would have to do the
election all over again or are we pretty
much stuck with the not stuck but do we
just live with the results the way they
are and try and do things differently in
2008 well there's nothing in the
Constitution that can guide us here this
is this is virgin territory so I think
we'd be pretty much on our own and
trying to figure out what to do I tend
not to think that the results of the
2004 election can be reversed because
there's nothing in the Constitution to
allow us to do that your idea of a vote
of a new election is an intriguing one
and I suppose if bushes fortunes
continued to decline some people may
suggest that but I think it's unlikely I
think that our focus should be on the
future I think that we should be talking
very seriously about a national movement
of election reform which will concern
the use of paper ballots I think we
should return to paper ballots I think
we should ban the participation of
private vendors in our election system
there is no reason for that it's
something you shouldn't have in a
democracy I think we should start to
talk about a rational system for
elections of federal system with a
uniform standard from state to state
county to county run by a completely non
partisan bureaucracy whose job is to
make sure the elections take place
fairly and that the count is conducted
accurately if you put the election in
the hands of a federal entity though
don't you open yourself up to
accusations that it's going to be run or
influenced by the party in power either
in the white house or in the Congress
well one could run into those
accusations I actually think the system
we have now is run by the party in power
you see there are agencies in the
government that that are scrupulously
nonpartisan it may seem unbeliev
bolta most of the people watching this
show but the gal4 example is is solidly
bipartisan objective it does its job
takes research projects and it carries
them out NASA for example it's what's
that got to do with party politics at
its best the post office which is
sometimes you know inefficient but I
don't believe it's engaged a whole lot
lately and distinctly partisan
maneuvering so I think that if we want
if we want to have elections that really
work where people get to vote and the
votes are counted and systems that are
transparent so that finally neither
party can say oh you cheated oh you
cheated because it will people they'll
always accuse each other of having
cheated that's a fact of life but we can
have a system that is more accessible to
the public one that's actually
controlled by the people who can see
what's going on you can see the count
and everything you do that you know
you're going to have as close to fair as
you can get in addition to being an
author Mark Crispin Miller is also a
professor of Media Studies at New York
University and a regular commentator on
air America appearing often on the
morning's edition and the Al Franken
show our next call comes from New Ulm
Minnesota go ahead yes I don't want
apologizing my voice you got a bad cold
it's okay um just one comment that it
wasn't going to make about the previous
caller from Baltimore I was born and
raised there I moved to Minnesota ten
years ago and you know he may be right
that that some some people in wards
about ten times but it's absurd anybody
that knows anything about urban politics
Baltimore politics the Democrats
routinely carry their in in inner-city
areas and urban areas you know on the
range of 70 30 an extra 10 volts an
extra hunt you know extra ten thousand
volts doesn't make makes no difference
so the guys argument was kind of absurd
but them my question is uh in two
thousand in Florida I believe that the
that the thing that tipped that election
happened way before
election even went on and that was there
was a computer program that the the
state of Florida obtained to eliminate
felons from voting and they were given a
choice of you know how he'll exact they
wanted to be you know the more exact
they were as far as names and addresses
the less people would be taking off the
voting rolls you know the less exactly
where the more people will be taking off
and they course chose the the the less
exact way and so there were many many
people many more than than hanging chads
or anything else that were just
disqualified right off the bat with
obviously not enough time on Election
Day if you show up and they say hey
you're a felon and you say hey I'm not
you have no way to appeal that and get
your vote back and I'm wondering your
thumb if mr. Miller is aware of that
program and if those kind of things were
used in other states in 2004 great
question it was over 90,000 people who
were disenfranchised under that program
and I think maybe 2,000 of them had been
felons so it was it was clearly a
disgrace and it was a big embarrassment
for the bush regime in Florida I tell
the whole story in and fooled again the
fact is that the felon list for all of
the controversy that it that it roused
and all the promises to make sure it
would never happen again basically it
was used again in 2004 I tell the whole
story in great detail fact the section
on Florida in the book is the longest
and most detailed of any because the
stuff that happened in Florida was a
carnival of disenfranchisement it was
staggering but yeah the the felon list
was one way to do it you know just
strikes me sitting here the guy from
Baltimore arguing that you know he voted
10 or 15 times and then this this man
making the very reasonable point that
that was unnecessary in in Baltimore
because you know the population is
democratic this is really what this is
all about the Democrats didn't
commit systemic fraud this last time not
because they're morally superior beings
but because they didn't need to and it
primarily had to do not with the
brilliance of Kerry's campaign because
it was quite an inept Lee run campaign
it had to do it with this nation's
rejection of Bush Cheney's extremist
agenda which you know you wouldn't know
it from the media but which had turned
off a considerable number of Republicans
I have many pages in the book devoted to
the strenuous Republican backlash
against bush before Election Day a lot
of moderate Republicans a lot of
libertarian Republicans who were uneasy
with the theocratic drift of Bush's wing
of the party voted either sat out the
election or perhaps voted for Kerry it's
important for us to bear this in mind so
the point here is that when people argue
so vehemently that the Democrats do it
to what they're really saying is that in
those places where there are mostly
Democrats something has to be done to
keep these people from voting what
they're really objecting to is not that
the Democrats committed fraud what
they're really objecting to is the mere
existence of large groups of people on
the other side it is a very very
dangerous attitude and call it
intolerant is an understatement but
that's what we're dealing with here and
that explains the demons with which the
people who carried out this crusade did
their work of obstructing voters
misinforming voters bullying voters
because it did happen all over the
country you say it happened all over the
country but a lot of attention was
focused on Ohio and my question is was
Ohio that much more of a an election
anomaly than any other parts of the
country or did they feel like the the
people who run the elections well we
can't get caught doing this again in
Florida so we've got to do it somewhere
else is there another Florida or another
Ohio on the horizon in 2008 well
actually there were three states that
were the focus or the object of a
concerted attack on democratic propriety
the three swing states were Florida Ohio
and Pennsylvania and I have a lot of
information
on all three in in fooled again so it
really wasn't the case the Ohio was the
state where it happened what happened in
Florida was equally as staggering but
for demographic reasons for having to do
with electoral votes and so on we paid
particular attention to Ohio Ohio seems
to have put Bush over the top so the
horse race kind of ended up there but
that that's that forces us not to notice
how it happened in places like Texas how
it happened in places like Michigan and
Wisconsin and so on it happened all over
the place and we've got to stop thinking
that there has to be a ground zero
because it even happened in New York it
even happened in New Jersey it happened
in red states where you think Bush's
victory would be sufficient but in North
Carolina for example where Bush was
supposed to win by around nine points in
those places a largely democratic that
used the touchscreen machines he had a
15-point lead see and Kerry's lead in
Wisconsin was surprisingly small it was
only twelve thousand votes it ought to
have been much larger so we can't simply
look in all the usual places we can't
think in all the usual ways and above
all we can't make the fatal mistake of
thinking that it can't happen here the
framers understood that it can happen
here that's why they designed a system
with checks and balances so if they
understood it and we believe in their
system we are obligated not to make that
lazy mistake of thinking that not here
this isn't Guatemala because it can
happen anywhere power is that way and we
are obliged in our civilian lives as in
our military careers to defend American
democracy in every way at hand nanuet
New York go ahead good morning gentlemen
good morning mr. Miller my question goes
back to your statement about the voting
machines and the lack of them and the
lack of working machines in certain
Democratic areas isn't who's got the
responsibility to choose the type and
choose the number if wouldn't that be
the
the the party that is in power in that
particular district in that particular
small area that would choose the type
and their number of machines for their
voting places well ultimately yes in
Ohio for example this is a state you
know about which we have a lot of
detailed information ultimately it was
the Secretary of State who made the
decision to hold back voting machines
from those neighborhoods that really
needed them and by and large it would be
the secretaries of state who are
responsible although in some states at
the county level you had people making
decisions that were not necessarily
approved by the secretaries of state so
I don't mean to paint the situation with
a broad brush but whoever is in
authority is in the best position to
determine how machines are going to be
allocated Yonkers New York go ahead yeah
hi I actually I was my comment was um
it's going to be sort of a long lines of
that I agree with what you're saying and
that the government of this country was
based on a system of checks and balances
and not being able to talk about
something like problems with voting
machines and who's going to control them
or whether this corruption at some of
them we should at least be able to
discuss that in the country but I did
have one quick question just about
something you said you use the term bush
regime and I was wondering why you why
you said that yeah I used the word
regime maybe it's too provocative but i
don't really regard this administration
as functioning within American political
tradition i I don't really think that
it's it's recognizably American I don't
think its conservative it's not a
Conservative administration it's not
about limiting the power and size of
federal government it's not about fiscal
prudence it's not about refusing to
meddle in the affairs of other countries
I mean by any is a classical definition
of conservatism any of the criteria of
conservatism this administration is not
conservative
so I say regime because I think that it
isn't indeed a regime I i believe it's
it's here illegitimate Lee I believe
there's far too little political
opposition I think there's a climate of
fear that prevents people from speaking
out uncertain truths I think our rights
are seriously at risk as they would be
under a non-democratic regime and so I
you know that was quite consciously
using that that term Huntsville Alabama
go ahead thank you and good morning mr.
Crispin I have I mean mr. Miller I have
not read your book fooled again but one
of the concerns I had in the last
election and it's a big concern is that
there was a Democratic governor and
several others the governor of
Pennsylvania who tried very hard to keep
out the military vote the absentee
ballots and I wonder if you had anything
to say in your program about that
because that was not a Republican
attempt that was mostly Democrat from
what I could see so what information you
have in your book on absentee military
boats being tried for people trying to
eliminate that from our process yeah
well first of all I'd like you to go to
my blog mark Crispin Miller calm and
post a comment giving me the details on
that because I had actually never heard
that there were Democratic Governors
trying to suppress the military vote
because if it's true I'll certainly put
it in the next edition of the book I do
have a lot of information about the
military vote in fooled again and what
I've discovered is that a considerable
number of the troops abroad actually
favored carry according to an Annenberg
School poll on October 15th just before
Election Day found that a third of
uniform servicemen supported carry and
attended to be enlisted men whereas
tended to be the officers who supported
the administration there in fact were
various efforts that I described in the
book
kind of police the military vote overall
there was an effort as I said before to
subvert the whole expatriate vote the
whole vote the whole the whole vote cast
by those who live outside the country
which includes the military so I have
not seen any evidence of actual efforts
to suppress the military what I've heard
a lot of Republican charges just went on
but if you'll be kind enough to give me
the information I'll certainly take it
seriously the book is fooled again how
the right stole the 2004 election and
why they'll steal the next one to its
author Mark Crispin Miller thank you
very much for being on the program
thanks for having me we are going to
take a short break and when we come back
we'll be taking a look at the cover
story in this week's Weekly Standard All
in the Family money mobsters murder the
sordid tale of a GOP lobbyist casino
deal gone bad and its author Matthew
continent